In the technology domain, there is one innovation that regards electrodes and therefore is awaited because it offers the possibility to reduce the manufacturing price a lot. Core-Shell electrodes are indeed offering the possibility to keep the properties presented by platinum electrodes at the same time as reducig the amount of precious metal contained in the component. The idea is to concentrate the platinum at the surface of the electrode so that it remains in small quantity. Such kind of techniques are particularly interesting because they can be applied for existing types of fuel cells which have already been found usage and therefore will not require any change in terms of standards. Other improvements could also be brought by minimizing the cost of the electrolyte or catalysts consisting of the fuel cell.
Those innovations will have an impact by making the product more accessible to customers. But fuel cells already present quite a few advantages compared to combustion engines. Indeed, because of the little movement pieces are submitted to, it is a system that requires little maintenance. Fuel cells however can fail for mechanical or thermal degradation, or from a loss of efficiency of the different components (catalyst, electrode, electrolyte). As a consequence, research and commercialization will also help improve reliability.
These innovations have to be done because of the remaining immaturity of the technology and infrastructure. And indeed in terms of infrastructure, the hydrogen production equipments are rare. A fuel cell is supposed to provide a zero-emission option. To remain consistent, the best hydrogen production modes then are the non-polluting ones. In addition to this, because hydrogen needs to be produced and then used, the process is not efficient in terms of energy spendings. This can be seen as a defect. However, because natural energy sources cannot be controled and therefore are hard to exploit efficiently, making Hydrogen out of them is a great opportunity to make good usage of their potential. 